Welcome to the final module,
Integrating with Custom External Systems in the Spring Integration: Using
Channel Adapters to Integrate with External Systems course.
In this module,
we're going to review how to build custom inbound and outbound channel adapters.
We'll start by reviewing our custom integration strategy to
learn how we can integrate with systems for which Spring
Integration does not have native support.
Then we're going to review how to build a custom inbound channel adapter,
and finally, we'll review how to build a custom outbound channel adapter.
As we've seen through this course,
inbound and outbound channel adapters share commonalities that we
can leverage to build our own custom adapters.
We saw several Spring Integration native inbound channel adapters
that were ultimately some form of message source,
and we saw outbound channel adapters that were some form of message handler.
So if we want to integrate with a custom external system,
all we need to do is create our own MessageSource and
MessageHandler implementations.
A MessageSource is a functional interface that defines a
received method that returns a message.
We have three options to build a custom MessageSource.
First,
we can implement our functionality inside our
configuration class using a lambda expression.
Next,
we can create a new class that implements the message source
interface and override its receive method.
And finally,
we can extend the abstract MessageSource class and
implement its doReceive method.
For the example in this module, we'll opt for the final option,
namely extending the abstract MessageSource class.
A MessageHandler is a functional interface that defines a
handleMessage method that receives a message.
We have similar options to build a custom MessageHandler.
We can implement a MessageHandler using a lambda
expression as we saw in the Mongo DB example.
We can implement the MessageHandler interface and
override its handleMessage method.
And finally,
we can extend the abstract MessageHandler class and
override its handleMessage internal method.
Again, for the example in this module,
we'll opt to extend the abstract MessageHandler class.
Putting all of this into a diagram,
a publisher will send a message to a channel that triggers a service
activator that invokes our custom MessageHandler.
Our custom MessageHandler will implement the logic to
send the message to the external system,
then we'll define a message source with an inbound channel adapter
annotation that defines a poller that invokes the message source.
The message source will retrieve the data from the external system,
and the inbound channel adapter will publish it to a channel
that will ultimately be received by a consumer.
We're going to need a sample external system,
but to keep things simple and to keep us focused on the
Spring Integration side of things,
rather than on the complexities of an external system,
we're going to implement a simple directory monitor.
Well read reservations as JSON files from a local directory.
And when creating reservations, we'll write them to a local directory.
Spring Integration already has this functionality,
but it'll be a simple example that will allow us to see all of the moving
parts in creating inbound and outbound channel adapters.
So let's get started by reviewing how to create a custom inbound channel adapter.